good evening everyone Laszlo Montgomery
here thanks for tuning in to the china
history podcast part seven this time in
our award-winning series which does a
nice shallow dive into the main history
surrounding the warlord era in china
last time we made it as far as the end
of the second surely Funke in war turned
out a little a little bit better for
jiang tolling this time around he and
the betrayer general Fung use young
joined forces to send will pay for
running to the nine king warlord soon
chuan Fung for protection and to regroup
and even though he got walloped in this
new war with chunks or lien will pay Fuu
hasn't been written out of the script
yet in this second encounter with the
Manchurian warlord will pay Fu's best
laid plans did not work out as he had
hoped remember last time there were two
things that blended into each other
first it was the young Sujit young war
that moved up the timetable for will pay
foo and forced his hand to enter this
war with chunk toiling half-cocked will
pay foo and his surely military were
counting on a certain concatenation of
events to happen in such a way that when
the last move was made he'd be left on
top he had tried to buy off the on quake
league to get them on his side though no
longer a military threat Duan she raised
organizations still at a solid power
base in Shanghai and the lower Yangtze
region so that didn't work out either so
Tuan ended up siding with Chang Selene
will pay foob also was counting on
making overtures to bring Sun yat-sen in
his hole can't on government
organization over to the Cheerilee side
this would have left Jeong Selene
isolated in the northeast ready to be
taken down at a time of will pay foo is
choosing but it didn't end up that way
either
the prospective allies will pay fool was
hoping to attract sided with his enemy
and in Sun yat-sen's case and he got
tied down dealing with local emergencies
in the second
and surely font in war ended up being a
massive military defeat for woop a fool
and the entire journey organization
after he had won and all the dust
settled from the second surely Funke
Tanwar Janko lien had to set up another
provisional government I don't know
which one this was since 1912 this was
one of the hallmarks of the warlord era
and China the revolving doors in the
halls of power and the Beijing
government and through this control of
the government in Beijing came control
of tax revenues which allowed them to
wear the ring of legitimacy in front of
the Chinese people and the foreign
powers winning the war was easy for
chunk Solon compared to figuring out a
way to divide up the spoils with fungus
young that was gonna be awkward
Chang tahleen was much stronger than
fungus young so he ended up with the
good areas and fungus young got stuck
with a urine Shahar and Gansu say urine
in Shahar were old provinces located
adjacent to each other and what is today
parts of Inner Mongolia where all the
action is Balto Hohhot Ordos and why and
you thought he'd never bounce back from
those nishihara loans but Duan shear a
was installed as provisional chief
executive of this new government john
tahleen fungus young and Lou young Chang
had all met in Tianjin in November 1924
to talk this idea over with Duan cheer a
though not ideal duan was the least
despised and best compromise candidate
available at that time and in a grand
gesture that meant well but didn't turn
out as anyone hoped Sun yat-sen was
invited by this new government to come
up to Beijing and confer with Chun
tolian fungus young and others about
reconciliation and unification of the
country by the end of 1924 when this
invitation came sun yat-sen was already
58 years old and not in
good health he didn't know it yet but he
had end-stage his cancer already but he
took these warlords up on their offer
and made the trip anyway and when he got
to Beijing he saw a doctor
it was diagnosed with cancer and given
days to live
despite that he hung in there till March
12 1925 and then Sun yat-sen was gone
that was a body blow to the KMT now who
were the Warlord's supposed to negotiate
with I won't get into it here but there
were a few men who had been quietly
clamoring for the mantle of sun yat-sen
in these final months one of course was
junk Ishak the others were one Qing way
and who Han mean there was gonna be an
old-fashioned power struggle and well
you all know who prevails in the end
meanwhile up in the north of China
everyone knew it was bound to happen
sooner or later
relations between Chang Celine and
fungus young began to deteriorate and as
it happens these two rivals and their
respective clicks the Guam in June and
funk in know they were gonna end up
battling it out just like on hue and
charlie and Shirley and fun 10 now came
the next of these major Wars of the era
the anti-fun tan war also called the
third Shirley Fontan war in the lead-up
to this war both fungus young and chunks
all in separately sent envoys to will
pay foo seeking his alliance in their
war against the other his army wasn't
what it used to be but we'll pay fool
could still put together a sizable force
who did will pay for side with he had
already faced down Chung toh lien twice
he beat him the first time and now
thanks to his defeat at the hands of the
Manchurian warlord will pay Fuu wasn't
much reduced circumstances compared to
the salad days of 1922 to 1924 and
living off the kindness of chuan chuan
Fong but despite all that bad blood
between will pay Fuu and chunks or Lin
what fungus young had done
- the Jade Marshall will pay fool now
that really stuck in his craw and will
pay fool wanted his revenge against this
betraying general and he didn't want to
wait until this dish was served cold so
we'll pay foo join hands with enemy
Chang Saleem to put an end to Fung you
see on one thing that surely and funkin
clicks had going for themselves was
access to the sea that meant importing
foreign armaments was a heck of a lot
more convenient for them in say UN in
Shahar Inner Mongolia well that's pretty
far inland not too many seaports but it
was quite close to the Soviet Union and
the Soviets by 1925 were heavy in the
arms business they made a lot of nice
stuff and funghi Shang was one of their
best customers in China from the late
Qing military modernization programs to
the whole long drawn-out warlord era and
all the way up through the end of the
Civil War in 1949 the arms industry
truly feasted in China fungus young set
up his headquarters in Changsha coal to
the northwest of Beijing and this city
is also known in Chinese history by its
Mongol name of culligan his contact for
Soviet arms and munitions was Michael
Borah den of the Comintern I should do
an episode on him in February 1925
fungus Jung had been receiving all these
Russian weapons shipped via the
trans-siberian and via old-fashioned
caravans pulling 500 carts of rifles
carbines machine guns hand grenades and
tens of millions of rounds of ammo so
when it was time to face off against
John so lean on the ancient northern
plains of China he was gonna be fully
locked and loaded for this third
jellyphant in war or anti function war
it all kicked off in October 1925 and
one of chunks Orleans most trusted but
later thoroughly disgruntled generals
guang-ling turned on him and besieged
the seat of power in the funk tian klieg
the city of Shenyang
for this fight general Gua thought he
was getting some prearranged support
from fungus young but well when it came
to promises these warlords often who
couldn't count on each other
this is what happened here and after
being left in a lurch in this 3-month
mutiny against young Jolyon for Guang
Ling it ended on the night before
Christmas when the siege was lifted miss
turncoat general Guang Ling and his wife
- they were captured and shot and with
this act it spelled the end to the
ill-fated alliance between the
Manchurian warlord and the Christian
warlord fungus young had not only
betrayed his first ally will pay foo but
his second one as well
gentle in Guam Ling's defeat in Shenyang
was a huge setback for fungus young is
taking this stronghold of junks all-in
was pretty central to his overall plan
then from that point on into 1926 it was
all downhill for the Christian warlord
will pay Fuu had had his revenge with
the armies of Jiang Tholian whoop a fool
the dog meet general Jiang dong Qiang
and other warlords I haven't mentioned
all bearing down and fungus young he
hopped down the next available transport
to Russia announced his retirement and
remain there for a stretch until John
kai-shek's people came knocking on his
door so now with bitter enemies Jung
chalalan and we'll pay foo victorious
together in battle against their common
foe from Yu Xiang together they had to
figure out a way to govern the north and
do that unification thing - while they
were at it this of course was doomed
from the start and by now 1925 1926
everyone from the top down in Chinese
society from the villagers to the
hipsters and all the foreign enclaves
and all the major cities everyone had
grown so sick of these warlords
almost a decade of trying to bump each
other off for the sake
season control of Beijing head injured
killed and profoundly disrupted the
lives of too many people the organised
popular resistance to warlord rule
really started to become more widespread
you remember from many past episodes the
May 30th movement may 30 1925 will that
began up in Shanghai a lot of this
popular discontent was expressed through
all kinds of protests and many were
directed at these chinfa that word was
sort of a pejorative for these kinds of
militarists this is where the word
warlord started to be bandied about more
contemptuously in the foreign press and
the literature that was floating around
intellectual circles pulled no punches
in its condemnation of the Warlord's and
the lasting damage they were doing to
the country by now the idea of forming a
national army and taking it to these
regional strongmen well wasn't such a
hard sell to anyone except the Warlord's
this notion of mobilizing an army
marching north and defeating these
self-serving warlords would so abuse
their positions well this is where the
idea for the northern expedition came
and we're almost there
let's talk about a warlord I've
mentioned a couple times but haven't
given you his one-of-a-kind story
this was Chun Tong Chun and in talking
about this most colorful and
controversial of warlords we can go back
and review a few of the events we've
looked at these past episodes he doesn't
start to make headlines until 1925 and
he sticks around until about 1929 and
then by 1932 he's gone well here's one
more warlord for you and I know you're
gonna like him Chun Tong Chang the dog
meat general the gold ro Chun tune you
didn't get that name because he liked to
eat dog meat eating dog meat that was a
North East China slang term for gambling
and cards pie column I'm guessing of all
these warlords I've introduced and all
their excesses this one more than any
other was the superlative
even the great John King Fairbank one of
the most sacred cows among Western
sinologists call Chang Chong Chong
someone who quote cave warlords a bad
name in today's popular history he's
known for his various nicknames and a
collection of anecdotes about the many
antics attributed to chang song-chun
during his military career he was
another Shandong guy he was born in like
Joe on the north Shandong coast west of
Yantai like Chang Celine he only had a
couple years of formal education and
accounts very about his literacy he was
quite a poet later on in life in the how
shall I say in the in the Andrew Dice
Clay reciting mother Goose
kind of way and this being a family
program and all I dare not treat you to
any of the dogmeat General's poetry he
didn't have a fancy military education
like most of these other fellows we've
discussed no National Military Academy
for Chang Chong Chung his mother well
this was part of his story too he
honored her to the max till his dying
day and it's said he took his beloved
mother with him wherever he went
except on to the field of battle back
home in Shandong she was said to been a
witch or some kind of Exorcist back in
her village and his father and most of
the sources I found all agreed he was a
head shaver by trade and played the
trumpet in other words you didn't come
from money the dog meet general yet his
hardscrabble a childhood as he could get
in a poor part of Shandong he was huge
fully grown
he was 1.98 meters tall at six foot six
to my fellow American skis he was a big
guy and around the turn of the century
in that final decade of the Ching
dynasty jong-seong Chang like so many
others who were dealt a similar hand in
life he turn to banditry there's a way
to make a living if you did well and got
noticed now there was always a chance of
promotion within these kind of
organizations Chang Chong Chang ended up
fighting in jennszoo for the local
warlord for a stint he also saw action
in the russo-japanese war fighting on
the side of the russians
later on in the 1920s he had an
interesting relationship with the
Russians and even kept as a regiment in
his army a White Russian guard numbering
about 4,000 he was famous for dressing
up some of these troops in these
old-style loud and bodacious old Russian
military uniforms and he had a fair
number of Russian count combines later
on as well after serving in jung-soo
without much to show for himself he
wandered north up to Manchuria junk Zola
Lin's territory he made a living on the
streets a harp in getting involved in
more banditry as well as petty crime and
embedding crimes that weren't so petty
later on after the wool chung uprising
he looked for opportunities in the funky
army he joined up and later on got
himself noticed by John Salim and in
time gained the Manchurian warlords
trust one of the vignettes from Zhang's
home Chung's greatest hits package that
got remembered or made up and passed
down was the story of chunks Orleans
birthday party naturally all the men
invited to celebrate with the great man
well if they were all trying to outdo
each other and the extravagance of the
gifts presented to him as for Chong
Chong Chang well he no showed first of
all and he has his gift he sent to empty
baskets in a pole accompanied
with a note that said he would shoulder
any responsibility given to him and he
wanted to have a couple of victories
chalked up first before he was willing
to stand before the Manchurian warlord
now Before we jump to his involvement in
the aftermath of the judge Jung sang-soo
war and afterwards when he became the
warlord of Shandong let's look at a few
other anecdotes about Jung song-chun a
Peking University president once
described Chong Chong Chong when he was
serving as the doojoon or military
governor of Shandong is someone who
quote had the physique of an elephant
the brain of a pig and the temperament
of a tiger
Time magazine once called him the
bassist warlord James II Sheridan called
him quote perhaps the best
exemplification of the brutality and
exploitation of which warlords were
capable and quote one of his other
nicknames was the Shandong monster one
of his more well-known atrocities that
his troops engaged in was the game of
opening melons that was a euphemism for
splitting skulls open with swords he was
also a proponent of the idea of hanging
severed heads of editors and journalists
who criticized him from telegraph poles
as warnings to others not to protest and
to engage in a little self-censorship
and what they printed members of secret
societies they too and their heads hung
from telegraph poles interestingly he
was also one of the earliest modern
Chinese military organizations that
incorporated women into the army but it
was his harem and the conspicuousness
with which he incorporated these women
into his whole persona that made him so
hard to forget his harem consisted of
something like 40 women the number
varies someone reported they were from
26 different nationalities and each one
had a number and the flag of the woman's
nation imprinted on her washbasin they
accompanied Cheng Tong Chang to various
public and private affairs and banquets
and served as hostesses at his
extravagant parties he couldn't remember
their names and refer to them by the
numbers assigned to them and speaking of
numbers although I contemplated leaving
this out you know the CHP being this
long-running family program that it is
chang chong chang also had a couple
other nicknames old eighty-six and old
63 because if you took a stack of 63 you
and shook high dollar coins or 86 silver
dollars and piled him up on top of the
other
well that stack of coins would add up to
the length of a dog meet generals you
know what
later on he acquired the nickname 72
cannon jong this arose out of an
incident in 1929 1930 when Shandong
was gripped by this famine caused by
lots of Sun and no rain
well something this big was a job for
chiang kohung it was said he first
visited the temple where the God was
housed who was responsible for the
weather rather than lighting up some
incense and saying a prayer - he took
his big meaty hands and slapped the
statue of the God repeatedly and berated
him for causing this natural calamity
and causing such hardship to the people
of his province Shandong it said he
ordered one of his artillery units to
fire into the clouds and they did this
72 times before all that silver iodide
started reacting with the clouds and the
rain started falling he was also known
as the three don't knows general the Sun
bucher Jung Joon the three things he
didn't know if he asked him was how many
women in his harem how much money he had
and how many troops under his command
the three don't knows ladies and
gentlemens
he chain-smoked manila cigars the cubans
of asia and i have it on good authority
he was also a big fan of the opium pipe
the great writer and all-around man of
letters lin yutang wrote an essay called
in memoriam of the dog meet general that
was written on the morning Chong Chong
Chong died September 3rd 1932 let me
lift a few quotes from this work lin
yutang
wrote of him quote he was the most
honest and unashamed
of all the colorful legendary medieval
and unashamed rulers of modern China he
was direct forceful terribly efficient
at times obstinate and gifted with
moderate intelligence
he made no pretenses to being a
gentleman he was ruthlessly honest and
this honesty made him much loved by all
his close associates if he loved a woman
he would say so
and he would see foreign consuls with a
Russian girl sitting on his knee if he
held orgies he didn't try to conceal
them from his friends and foes if he
coveted his subordinates wife he told
him openly
and wrote no psalm of repentance about
it like King David and he was always
square if he took his subordinates wife
he made her husband chief of police and
chignon because of his honesty and his
generosity he was beyond the hatred of
his fellow men the morning I entered my
office and informed my colleagues of the
great news everyone smiled which showed
that everyone was friendly towards him
no one hated him and no one could hate
him
China was by then still being ruled by
men like him who hadn't his honesty
generosity and loyalty he was a born
ruler such as modern China once and he
was the best of them all end quote
for all his eccentricities brutality and
depravity he was one of junks Orleans
better generals he was a fighter
more of his antics later last episode in
part six we discussed the Cho Chang
Chang su war and how that tied into the
second surely funk in war
Chang song Chang had fought for Jung
Selene and team funk TN which included
Duan shear a in his own way clique and
for a job well done scoring a number of
victories in this most destructive war
to date in this warlord era duan and
chang tolling saw to it that Chang Chong
Chang was made the military governor of
Shandong and it was during this time as
warlord of Shandong that most of the
legend of the dog meet general got
written prior to his stint as Doojoon of
Shandong he briefly held things together
in Shanghai for chunks or Lin and for
that brief period he was there
partygoers and lovers of Vice had a mini
Golden Age it was said Chang Chong Chong
and Chantal Dean's son the young marshal
Chung Xiao Lian are those two party
together like it was 1999 they got high
smoke and opium and visited all the
night spots that were all part of the
mystique of 1920 Shanghai he was chums
with big air do you remember
do us young boss of the green gang the
most powerful crime syndicate in
shanghai all those gangstas got on
famously with jang seong chung as you
could imagine the vice trade in 1920
shanghai was already not doing too bad
and for the short period between the end
of the second surely Funke 10 war until
Chong Chong Chong left for Shandong in
April 1925 all those who enjoyed the
seme underside of Shanghai society so
wonderfully and colorfully depicted in
paul frenchs book from 2018 city of
devils they got to really let it all
hang out without limits well that's the
dogmeat general 72 cannon Jong old 86
and a host of other epithets for this
eccentric and sometimes quite amusing
but otherwise brutal violent and
impulsive man who well despite all that
at the loyalty and respect of his troops
and who were more often than not
delivered for his boss gentlemen and the
old marshal he took care of Jang Song
Chong and as I said gave him the
magnificent and historic province of
Shandong to govern as warlords do and
most of the worst stories about his
brutality and some of the more unsavory
things attributed to him happened during
this period that ended in May 1928 after
the anti funky n war ended and Fontanne
emerged as the winner that's pretty much
it as far as this ten-year spate of
intra warlord warfare involving all
these militarists and their minions
fighting each other and everything is
gonna reach a crescendo in the northern
expedition which will be led by
Generalissimo Chiang kai-shek and for
the balance of this series we'll focus
on that final chapter of the Chinese
warlord era the final chapter but not
the epilogue their rule there will still
be the central plains war but trust me
there's still more to come before I go
let me recommend a new history podcast
called story
is of the Second World War every episode
features engaging discussions with
military historians and leading experts
as they provide insight into the many
facets of this greatest of conflicts in
our modern history episodes about
Winston Churchill featuring acclaimed
Churchill biographer Andrew Roberts big
week the largest air battle of World War
two with BBC broadcaster James Holland
and many more fascinating conversations
can be heard on stories of the Second
World War you could subscribe to this
podcast on any of the very same podcast
apps that are willing to stoop to have
me on their platform another round of
thanks to all my patreon supporters
patreon.com slash China history podcast
prefer to show some love using Pay Pal
instead go to paypal.com cast and donate
to your heart's content to this worthy
cause but doing this for going on 10
years come June 2020 I thank you okay
Lazlo Montgomery here signing off from
Los Angeles California on a nice rainy
day the snow and a San Bernardino
Mountains looks great like a postcard
you should come out here and see it
please think about joining me again next
time for another exciting episode of the
China history podcast